okay welcome everybody it's April of 1st
2019 this is the Jay s core dev team
weekly sync
I'm your host Alan sure if you're here
click on the crib pad link and add your
name to the attendees list so that we
know who's here for for the future
people who look at these notes I guess
anyway attendees we've got a note-taker
Jacob again thank you very much let's do
what we do
always and we go through a round of
updates where we all tell each other
what we did last week and what we're
gonna do this week and what we're
currently blocked on so that we can
unblock each other and make some
progress cool so I will start at the top
of the list if you haven't already put
your weekly update in please at it now
and we'll get to you and at the bottom
then you might have more time to add it
cook so first up is Vasco would you like
to share with us your weekly update
please yeah of course so last week I've
been working mostly in the supporting
uniform with the video too
basically I've been working with role in
the introspection data model for a lipid
speak and I also created a ripple for
JavaScript with a little bit of
introspection that is currently every
work in progress
but I needed to have an initial
implementation of that with switch so
that I could instrument just the p2p we
didn't collect data from running GFS
notes to provide some real data to new
form which will be useful for them to
understand what type of data they can
have in the UI other than that I I was
working in a little bit of interrupts
mostly finishing some details in any PRS
and waiting for reviews and with that
pops up diamond yars
and the user of parcels ready and
released so the purpose of
interrupts are master and also the DHD
ones for the
routing and conferencing we are still
missing content retching and I it is
blocked right now because of we need to
basically add configuration to the
adjacent configuration to both demons
and with that also add validators and
selectors for the DHT customer world
through the config
I also did our quest for interrupt
because we in the blip in the experiment
and the experiment client we changed
from using unique socket taps to multi
others instead and I needed to the
interface so this week I want to get the
streams interrupt tests we are reviewed
judgment as he's working on yes some
problems with that I've been talking
with him and maybe I will have to help
them as well to finish it then I need to
continue the CHP introspection reporter
I'm still working on and hopefully
future planning for shares of it that's
everything from me any questions or
comments or others it's sorry yeah the
introspection is said that what is that
doing that that basically looks at
what's going on in Lapita P and then
reports it to does it right now
basically it is like an aggregated state
of fold them the state in metrics that
we went to get out of lipid speed to
expose for the in this case for the
nationalization but we are also working
with the desperate people and we are
like converging pull the data that we
need for all those cases and basically
that module is possible or holding that
data and then we are still deciding with
what will be the
pursued but I think the from now the the
idea is to expose expose and endpoints
in the early experiments which will
allow us to get the data from outside
will it be in lipid to be by default or
will it just be something that it's just
it just a flag in their experiment all
right okay any other questions for
mushrooms okay cool if there's no
questions and let's move on it's me next
so whatever done okay yeah okay so I
helped debug and I can appear for
there's a there was a duplicate variable
there was a duplicate function
declaration actually in stream to call
stream it's just basically the same
function defined twice but the only the
second one wins I think so so I just
removed it but that was problematic
because it meant the well what was
happening is babel released a new
version of of itself with a change that
meant that if you had duplicate variable
declarations they would throw and not
build your thing which meant that all
our browser builds in CI were they were
breaking just because this had been
updated and it was an arranged version
update and so yeah it's tracked that
down and fix that so that's down and
dusted and secondly bundle size they
pr's got merge into Jeff's like FS the
bundle size in the latest release
candidate is about 26% smaller than we
ready free took that version as opposed
to 34 because that was when Hugo
basically started working on it and we
actually saw some some gains already but
in total from from when we started
working on it we saved about 26% which
is super cool and then working towards
the 0:35 JSI PFS release with DHT we've
been working we've been or you may know
that we've been having problems with
like understand CPU usage and it's just
the BTB has never had that many peers to
dial before so there's been a kind of
per peer dark you implemented in the b2b
switch and yeah so I was reviewing that
and and that that's largely solved the
problem and we've got a new problem
which means we've got too few peers now
which is kind of we've gone too far the
other way so hopefully that will be
resolved very soon as well and I was at
the Lisbon hacking plan events doing
retrofitting and defining okay ours last
week all he wrote up a great great
write-up of the event and go and have a
look and then other than that I've been
I've been musing on what it means to
stream with async iterables just
basically defining it for myself that I
could understand it I wrote it all down
and it's kind of it's a document that
basically defines what it how you would
stream in terms of like call stream
primitives like sinks and sauces and and
transform duplex or whatever it was
super useful to me because I was working
on a pull request to switch to a b2b
WebSockets to async it arose and I
forked called WS which is a kind of
wrapper around the module WS but for
pull streams and made it async iterable
a bowl and yeah just thinking about like
what a duplex is into in these terms
yeah just ivory and then that allowed me
to kind of add sync and duplex support
to the module the ASIC iterated the
pull-string modules that we can convert
async iterators to portions because
we've now defined what what a sink is in
terms of it only taken to iterator and
what duplex is which is to be honest
similar to what pull-string thinks they
are basically so it's all good so yeah
like I said zero 85 was blocked again
temporarily and but Jacob has been
working really hard to
get another fix in - why sure it'll read
it in a bit but but yeah that's cool so
my next ask about top priority right now
is to finalize okay ours for the next
quarter which is started now I need to
review that fix that I just mentioned
and people have been submitting poor
requests to Jaso BFS and the HTTP API
client and I haven't had a chance to
review them yet so I need to get on with
that and then if all goes it all goes to
plan a 0:35 release maybe this week
Coke's been helping me chug through the
release checklist so that's that's good
there's a whole lot less work for me to
do towards that now so that is super
appreciated thank you
has anybody any questions for me all
right cool thank you for listening all
right let's move on and Volker you're up
next can we have your update please
so my update is that I mostly spend time
on J's IPL the API discussions yeah
there's not really an outcome yet but
just like ongoing discussions and yeah
just and it's like it's so many so if
you're interested just go on the iPad e
repositories and then you will probably
find some issues in discussions there
and I'm not blocked and next week I vote
or this week I will work on the IP on
the format's part this is kind of part
of the pacing iterators endeavor because
yeah it's a DVD festival basic await and
we kind of like stripped it down a bit
from the Digital proposal to make make
it easy easy to agree on and move
forward and there's already a proposal
on for the next API refactoring and
we'll see how this goes
and then I hopefully the as the IPL dapi
have got merged hopefully this new API
will then
in union service and an activist the pro
requests are done they just need to be
reviewed and just created and merged
yeah that's all I have any questions for
vodka Alex when is the bike shedding
gonna stop good question
probably never stopped adding features
we can stop considering API changes yeah
I just really like to see this promise
certainly async/await stuff emerge from
the IPO TV formats repos like since we
got the main API stuff no it's great
yes it's basically like the this is the
reason for the for the what I call IP LD
formats cleanup is to strip down the
discussion so we don't keep bike sharing
but just ship something with the
async/await stuff and then go from there
and that's what I will work on it this
week so it will okay cool any other
questions
okay okay this loss of you so it just
takes me a while to scan for you or
whatever cool that's okay Jacob would
you like to share your update lower
speeds yes
as Alan mentioned I've been mostly
working on performance 4G asleep PDP for
the upcoming RPF s release big issue
that we're having there is the DHT is
effective and we're discovering a lot of
peers we were hitting issues where we'd
discover like 30,000 peers with the node
running for like 30 seconds the problem
with that is JSI PFS will try to dial
every single one of them and the PTP
doesn't like that and so like right now
we aren't we weren't doing any real
blocking in whippy-tippy there's no real
queue
management for that like it would just
try to spam everything so naturally the
CPU would just hit a hundred percent and
things would crap out so we've been
working on making that more manageable
right now in lippy tepee
everything is considered a dial even if
you just want to like negotiate a
protocol and just want to open a new
stream everything goes through dial
which isn't great and so we've been
working on kind of breaking that up into
it like what are actual like protocol
negotiations for creating new streams
versus like what's necessary for the
application and like what are like cold
calls where you discovered up here and
you're just going to connect to it as a
mitigation to get ipfs out the door
until we can make this better so if you
PRS open for that and then be working on
one last PR for those cold calls and
then hopefully we should be able to get
up that out the door this week and start
working on the long-term solution for
those also be looking at working to
review a old PR from machi for the web
RTC star refactor also need to do some
final validation on pulling prefixed PR
that fixes empty streams and large sync
streams that can cause the like max size
or the full stack overflow issues yeah
and I think that's it
Kirk hey question about the DHT and
dialing and I think on the ghost side
they limits the number of concurrent
dials because there's a limited number
of file descriptions so I was wondering
if you guys are taking account of it
yeah right now like Jesus if he wasn't
doing anything it's not doing anything
with file descriptors and so this is
like the stuff we're doing now is um
really a mitigation too until we can get
to that level of actually do more of
what goes doing
Stephen do you want to chime in I know
that actually goes implementation of the
DHT this total raw so you should like
you haven't read the Escamilla and
thinking up whatever she should read
them because like one of the reasons we
had some of these just with dialing is
that we were basically dialing everyone
in the network which also made contact
writing work but this doesn't scale very
open you never grows so like did you
base it off of the go DHT or gave papers
so the hash code probably need to chime
in for that but so right now what
happens is like the DHT will announce
the peers and the DHT isn't filing all
of them but go our ipfs is ultimately
listening for new pure discovery and
every time if ipfs sees that there's a
new pure it will dial to it always this
is never finding content just finding
other gears this is just through peer
discovery so if you happen to find
30,000 peers even if you don't dial to
them ipfs ultimately will attempt to
dial out all of this okay nevermind yeah
but ultimately we need to have like is
limb p2p jslabbee to be has the swarm
they do two files file descriptor
limiting and we don't have any of that
right now which is also no we're trying
to with the queuing and yeah
questions for Jacob cool all right if
we're good to go on we go on
up next is Hugo mr. Diaz please would
you share your update with us yes so I
guys I've been doing at least two of the
bottle size or JSP FS we put monocytes
requests are merged as I already told
you about there's still one left that
it's a little bit more controversial and
with the real problem we will have more
discussions about it regarding the
removing by default the IPL D formats
only in the browser and teaching the
docs out to add them but we will figure
that out later
also I've been debugging the vu CLI set
up for our view community and protocol
that's mostly done the site immediate
part is done we already did our sample
requests it works the readable parts
today I found the source of the issue
not I don't think I found like the issue
itself but at least the sauce and it's
an Plex so if I use the Jacobs public
west using pool mm Plex it works
perfectly so it's a bit strange because
we are usually those teams everywhere
both 2 & 3 but for some reason some
reason on whippey GPM plex
it's basically vanishes some context
inside the the class finishes and it
throws
the second part of the view supports is
about having it transpiled dependencies
which is a good thing but that opens up
a lot more issues that are mostly
related to viewing not to our code so
this will be split in two parts I will
finish the first one and then try to
figure out the second one but this one
is more critical also well debug the
stream suppose stream double declaration
issues and at the lovely time in Lisbon
with all you guys or most of you doing
some retro and some planning and some
lunching and footing and stuff like that
it was great great great time and next
I'll finish the view supports and IP all
the format's
full requests and then I will start
researching IP NS / DNS to see if it's a
viable solution to implement this
quarter instead of the HTTP proxy but
yeah we'll see about it it's in the
research stage yet so any of you and
there's any questions okay I have a
quick hopefully a quick question I set a
media is just the problem that we're
using set immediate and whatever's doing
the the bundling isn't adding a shim by
default right yes basically we we need
to what sorry a plus but yeah so we just
need to use async set of media or some
other thing by default instead of
expecting it to be there when it might
not be there yeah exactly
video stream what's the like what's the
error that's like what do you what is
the problem that
you'll see if a tickly yes I can
basically inside the inside M Plex
you can see from the stack you get
several streams going in there being
angled the events being fired but at
some point like after seven streams
appearing to work perfectly one of them
basically the context like the dis of
the class inside one of the function
calls that it's called in one of the
events basically a resume the the
context that is injected in that
function call it's undefined you know I
have no idea why because basically
everything is like next week next week
next stick is really out to debug where
the that's that fireball gets undefined
but yeah sometimes works but then all
right that was just for my own curiosity
I apologize
next up then if there's no other
questions for Hugo okay
it is duck his duck is new to the Jonas
team and this is his first first update
so yeah my name I first kind of order of
business was to go meet a bunch of
people and eat some really good food in
Lisbon so I think my proposal is we do
that every week but uh it was really
nice to really nice to meet everyone um
and then in terms of actually doing work
I was doing some DHT fixes last week and
I was doing some testing and trying out
examples for the release working on the
awesome endeavor that's the one for
committing callbacks to they sink oh
wait and next I'm gonna do the same
thing for the TCP library that Alan's
been working on for the WebSockets too
to kind of streaming API any questions
cool thank you
let's move on to Alex would you like to
share what's your updated penis hello so
there was a PR outstanding on handling
sub shots of shots to get created in one
haps update in NFS I merge that and
there was the QT planning for HIV
investment for package managers and
Lisbon you know everyone who was at
that's a lot of fun started after we're
talking about badger as a datastore from
go I started missing right with them
I could see native module for JavaScript
to to cool down to budget and yeah it
looks like it was kind of possible I had
quite happily around shipping from
JavaScript ago and back again yeah so
look at that a bit more in the spare
time I got a bunch of weird errors I
don't understand that I did a lot to do
with native modules but that's just my
lack of knowledge so it's gonna be fun
figuring out the problem areas I really
want to get the async/await stuff done
for Emma fest and UNIX advice so it's
basically just a bunch of IP LD in to
actually say that stuff getting merged
for I killed the N itself or the dag API
was great so they can they can you know
do that bit but I need the dopey B and
rule stuff to kind of settle so the
format's basically a pion used to settle
as well where I can really finish that
off like I could wrap everything and
then you know unwrap it later on when
the API becomes available by rather not
after all the kind of performance stuff
that we did around you know not having
crazy amounts of async and allocating
buffers and that kind of stuff it seems
a bit iffy like a backward step to go
and just artificially introduced more
stuff that could be bad so rather not do
that at all possible
there's a problem with reading sharded
directories by the Gateway I did a
little quick half to fix it like I
suggested fixing in the upstream
librarians I work everyone so you
probably fixing the ending upstream
library which is great because removed
the whole bunch of code which is cool
some people have been opening some
issues again some peon ipfs which is
great so I need to do a barrier against
that you know figure out I can do to
make it better and I'd like to get back
on to adding missing HTTP endpoints to
it might be of us yeah that's gonna be
me any question nice thank you
cool next up is Zane but he's not here
today looks like you've been doing some
async/await work as well it's great
cleaning the lingering things
ci ok Peter what is detail ok ok cool
all right so questions ok / - people
wish you who were visiting ok right yes
take a look at the conversation there
for kind of looking our dependencies so
the the Babel thing that I mentioned
earlier doesn't happen again
and we can all maybe stop it from
happening again which would be really
nice because it was slightly annoying
where it does all right cool so we've
got no minutes left for across team
updates but we if you are still here
then then you can you're welcome to
leave but if lied vital and Terry would
like to give us your quick cross team
updates then I will definitely listen to
you I do if you go first
sorry ok I will be very brief there's a
new release of our browser extension
it's a perfect day for
pushing release to the stable channel so
just mmm
visual refresh context actions are
available on the NS linked websites even
if you disable the redirect to local
gateway we ship new web UI which has
very cool fixes and improvements of our
file manager I think it's some details
if you are interested then there's like
our website to redirect opt out and
there is also like a global with direct
opt out so you can you have more control
over redirect to local gateway without
the need of suspending entire extension
and big thanks for submitting
translations for everyone who submitted
transactions yep so that landed to
Firefox and Chrome store works with
brave Opera I have some ongoing I have
someone going development right now
related to brave but that's all I would
say for now expect some interesting
updates in the future thank you
cool thank you light uh all right
a real quick question so I do okay Terry
your ruff
yeah so I was really happy to be with
folks in Lisbon last week wherever we
were and I had drafted the road map
before then but was able to make a
couple of quick adjustments to it well
we were there so I've dropped the links
in so you can spend some time on your
own looking at this but proto school
which is a community for learning about
decentralized web concepts in which the
bulk of the content right now is about
ipfs now has its own road map sort of
guiding principles if I were gonna
direct you to one thing here it would be
these in terms of how we want to
structure our content moving forward
what are the things that are gonna make
this stay as sort of a cohesive
experience that makes sense as it grows
as we try to accept contributions from
all over and I'm looking forward to
working with some of you on content
specifically designed for ipfs camp that
happens to fit into the proto school
roadmap so looking forward to that
there's also links there specifically q2
okrs if anyone's interested in those and
I'm excited Diego's getting on board to
help me with a lot of this and some of
the other folks on the gooey team are
gonna be pitching in switched yeah
very productive quarter for us very cool
anyone does anyone have any questions
for Terry wait wait they're real okay no
no questions
all right cool Thank You Terry all right
then we're three minutes over thank you
for sticking with us if you did and
that's it goodbye
thanks for coming it's been a rad time
we'll see you next week for another
exciting round of what I did last week
what I'm gonna do this week what I'm on
and also cross team updates which is fun
hi everyone thanks bye